The Indian Institute of Technology Patna (IIT Patna or IITP) is a public research university and technical institute in Bihta, Patna, Bihar, India. [4] It is recognized as an Institute of National Importance by the Government of India.[5] It is one of the second generation IITs established by an Act of the Indian Parliament on 6 August, 2008.[6] The campus of IIT Patna, located at Bihta, approximately 35km from Patna, has been fully operational since its inauguration by Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on 25 July, 2015.[7]

Campus

Rear view of Academic Complex

IIT Patna New Campus Building

Central Lecture Hall

Block 3 (Back Side)
IIT Patna's campus is located at Bihta, 35km from Patna at a 501 acres (203 ha) site. The foundation stone of the IIT Patna, Bihta Campus was laid by Kapil Sibal in 2011.[8] IIT Patna started its new session (from July 2015) in its permanent campus located at Bihta. The campus at Bihta was inaugurated by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on 25 July, 2015.[9][10][11][12][13] Earlier, the institute operated from a temporary 10 acres (4.0 ha) campus in Pataliputra Colony, Patna, in renovated buildings that were previously used by the New Government Polytechnic, Patna-13.

Administrative Building
This is the main building of the campus that can be viewed directly from the campus main gate. It houses all the administrative offices, the Central Library, the Directorate, offices of all the Deans and other officials.[14][15][16]

Computer Science, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering Block (Block 3)
The Department of Computer Science is evolving since the inception of IIT Patna in the year 2008 and employs researchers like Prof. Pushpak Bhattacharyya, Dr. Jimson Mathew, Dr. Arijit Mondal, and others. Other Departments like Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering also reside within the aegis of the department. The major research areas of the department include Communications, Signal Processing, VLSI, Electric Drives, Power Systems and Power Electronics. The department has online access to IEL, Science Direct, Springer and other online journals. Software like MATLAB and GAMS are available with the department in order to accelerate the research. Instructional laboratories for Basic Electronics, Analog Electronics Digital Electronics, Digital Signal Processing, Embedded Systems, VLSI, Electrical Machines, Power Electronics and Power Systems are fully operational.

Tutorial Block (Block 9)
All the academic lectures take place in the Tutorial Block. The five-storey building also temporarily houses the laboratories in Computer Science, Physics and Chemistry for the undergraduate students. It also has the Computer Centre of the institute with total 18 GBPS internet connections and adequate server infrastructure.[17] Laboratories in Basic Electronics, Analog Electronics, Digital Electronics, VLSI, Control, Instrumentation and Communication are also located in this building.

Chemical and Biochemical Engineering Block (Block 6)
The Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering is a newly established department, that was instituted in 2015 with the efforts of Dr. Sujoy Kumar Samanta, faculty of IIT Patna.[18] It is located in the Block-6 of the campus. The department accepted the first batch of undergraduate students in 2016 and presently has 9 faculty members.[19][20] The Block-6 houses research facilities for its faculty members in various research fields ranging from Clean fuel production, CO2 capture and storage, Pinch analysis, Microwave-assisted heating, Process modelling and simulation to Bio-resource engineering and Wastewater treatment. The department has also set up various laboratories for its undergraduate students including Heat transfer laboratory, Mechanical Operations laboratory, Chemical Reaction Engineering laboratory, Process simulation laboratory among many others.[21]

Science Block
The science block has classrooms, faculty rooms and laboratories for Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. These include the material science research and optics research facilities of the Physics Department, the chemistry instruments and chemistry research facilities of the Chemistry Department and the computational research facility of the Mathematics Department.

Humanities and Social Sciences Block (Block 1)
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences is located in Block 1.[22]

The department has also set up a Centre for Endangered Language Studies to work for the minor/ tribal/endangered languages of the state of Bihar and adjoining areas.[23] In addition, the centre aims to collaborate with the institutes and universities of the neighbouring states to work for minor/ tribal/endangered languages along the state borders.[24]

Mechanical Engineering Block
The Mechanical Engineering Workshop building houses all the Mechanical Engineering Laboratories, viz. Basic and Conventional Manufacturing Lab, Advanced Manufacturing Lab, CAD/CAM Lab, Dynamics Lab, Fluid Mechanics Lab, Heat and Mass Transfer Lab, Instruments and Control Lab, IC Engines Lab, Material Testing Lab, Metrology and Metallographic Lab, Robotics Lab and Polymer Engineering Lab